


The theory behind this game has gone through much revision, the way it functions and 'flows' is very diffrent from how it was originally planned. However the original principles guiding the game have remained the same.

A great aid to understanding how traditional fighting games work can be had by reading through the articals on this site, such as (http://www.sirlin.net/articles/yomi-layer-3-knowing-the-mind-of-the-opponent.html). In general, when an action is preformed, it is because the player anticipates an action from their opponent which has not yet occured. A player attacking an opponent by jumping over an attack which has yet to be preformed is a good example of this, as the player is commiting to an action which may either bring about a strong reward or completely blow up in their face, the outcome is something which they have little control over once the action has been started.

The purpose of my game is to attample to control this by placing certain 'abstract barriers' between the player and their opponent. The function of these barriers is to make sure that a skilled player can safely and confidently approach their opponent without fear of a direct counterattack, but only if they have in some form earned enough 'advantage' (an equally abstract quality) in order to overcome their opponent's 'barrier' defenses. This is best illustrated through an example framework.

The first element of this exampe framework is the footwork system, which I will explain as well as I can. The main idea behind the footwork system is simply that foot positioning matters, i.e. foot position is a resource that can be tempereraly sacrificed for an imidiate increase in speed (allowing for a dodge which results in the player's legs being apart from each other, then having to recover this seperation inorder to move again). This allows a player to accelerate rapidly given that they have prepared a stable footing, but prevents them from dashing up to an opponent and attacking without warning. Within this system, a player may walk up to an opponent, but may only attack once they either have their feet firmly planted on the ground or have 'hopped' from their front foot so that they may push off from their rear. These restrictions allow for a significant amount of free movement, but force the player to telegrath their ability to attack to their opponent (simply stepping into range of the opponent is effectivly handing them a free counter attack).

Given that moving into range and then attacking is a poor strategy, I have conviniently granted players the ability to push off a neutral footing directly into high priority attacks (such as kicks). This works in such a way that longer ranged techniques have greater priority (and hence cannot easily be directly counterattacked by lower priority attacks) and move you a greater distance forward, but give the opponent more time to move out of the way. In addition, most attacks provide many opportunities to cancel them before they are completed, allowing players to move forward while actively threatning their opponent but wihout having to commit to an action which will leave them at a significant disadvantage if evaded.

So the idea is that players move around by flicking/holding the analogue stick and can 'feel out' their opponent's reactions by fainting attack aproaches. Each player knows that just about everything they do -could- be dodged and countered by their opponent and so the natural and appropriate action is to engage in the kind of dance that created uncertainty. This sweet science of movement, the interplay between offence, defence and motion, is what I hope to develop as fully as a possibly can.

What I'm currently not yet happy with though is the blocking system, I want to create a system where, instead of having a binary of being left completly vulnerable or being allow to freely defend yourself, there is a system of weighted vulnerability. The goal of this is to make it possible for someone to miss an attack, get counterhit very quickly while still recovering from the attack and block the counterhit. However, blocking in such a way would move the defender into a -weak block state- and leave the blocking player at a disadvantage that would force them to continue being defensive. The idea is that the counterattacking player would be unconditionaly rewarded for making the counterhit (as their opponent will not be able to cleanly dodge or parry the attack), while the defender still has the oportunity to defend themselves (though doing so will prevent them from gaining advantage). With this system I hope to achieve an almost movie like quality of rapid exchanges while rewarding players for gaining and maintaining advantage.